README.md, before:

# ClientSideValidations #

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/client_side_validations.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/client_side_validations)
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/9f9e8bb6edc92615f34e/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/maintainability)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations?branch=master)

`ClientSideValidations` made easy for your Rails 5 applications!

## Project Goals ##

1. Follow the best practices for client side validations developed by [Luke Wroblewski](http://alistapart.com/article/inline-validation-in-web-forms)
2. Automatically extract and apply validation rules defined on the
   server to the client.
3. In the cases where a server-side validation rule would not work on
   the client (i.e. conditional callbacks like :if, :unless) then do not
   attempt client side validations. Fall back to the server side
   validation.
4. The client side validation error rendering should be
   indistinguishable from the server side validation error rendering.
5. Wide browser compliancy.
6. Work with any ActiveModel::Validations based model
7. Validate nested fields
8. Support custom validations
9. Client side validation callbacks
10. Plugin system to support additional FormBuilders, ORMs, etc...

## Install ##

Include `ClientSideValidations` in your Gemfile

```ruby
gem 'client_side_validations'
```

Then run the install generator

```
rails g client_side_validations:install
```

This will install the initializer:

```
config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb
```

If you need to copy the asset files from the gem into your project:

```
rails g client_side_validations:copy_assets
```
Note: If you run `copy_assets`, you will need to run it again each time you update this project.

## Initializer ##

The initializer includes a commented out `ActionView::Base.field_error_proc`.
Uncomment this to render your error messages inline with the input fields.

I recommend you not use a solution similar to `error_messages_for`. Client
Side Validations is never going to support rendering this type of error
rendering. If you want to maintain consistency between the client side
rendered validation error messages and the server side rendered
validation error messages please use what is in
`config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`

## Plugins ##

There is additional support for other `ActiveModel` based ORMs and other
Rails `FormBuilders`. Please see the [Plugin wiki page](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/wiki/Plugins)
(feel free to add your own)

* [SimpleForm](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations-simple_form)
* [Mongoid](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations-mongoid)

## Usage ##

The javascript file is served up in the asset pipeline. Add the
following to your `app/assets/javascripts/application.js` file.

```js
//= require rails.validations
```

Note: If you are using [Turbolinks](https://github.com/turbolinks/turbolinks),
make sure that `rails.validations` is required **after** `turbolinks`, so
ClientSideValidations can properly attach its event handler.

In your `FormBuilder` you only need to enable validations:

```erb
<%= form_for @user, validate: true do |f| %>
  ...
```

That should be enough to get you going.


## Conditional Validators ##

By default conditional validators are not evaluated and passed to the client.
We do this because the state model when the form is rendered is not necessarily the state
of the model when the validations fire server-side. However, if you wish to override this behavior you can do so
in the form. Given the following model:

```ruby
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates :name, :email, presence: true, length: { maximum: 10 }, if: :can_validate?

  def can_validate
    true
  end
end
```

You can force in the form:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: true %>
```

Passing `validate: true` will force all the validators for that attribute. If there are conditionals
they are evaluated with the state of the model when rendering the form. You can also force
individual validators:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: { presence: true } %>
```

In the above case only the `presence` validator will be passed to the client.

This is also the case with [other supported conditional validations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v4.2.0/active_record_validations.html#conditional-validation) (such as Procs, Arrays or Strings).

**NOTE:** when `:if` conditional includes a symbol or a string with
`changed?` in it or start with `will_save_change_to`, validator will forced automatically.

```ruby
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates :name, presence: true, if: :name_changed?
end
```

The presence of name in the example above will be validated
without explicit forcing.

This is done because it is always assumed the value will change on the
form.

Conditionals defined with `:unless` key do not have this optimization.

### Turning off validators ###

If you wish to skip validations on a given attribute force it to `false`:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: false %>
```

If you want to be more selective about the validation that is turned off you can simply do:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: { presence: false } %>
```

You can even turn them off per fieldset:

```erb
<%= f.fields_for :profile, validate: false do |p| %>
  ...
```

## Understanding the client side validations data attribute ##

A rendered form with validations will always have a `data-client-side-validations` attribute.

The objects it contains will have different keys depending upon the `FormBuilder` being used. However, `html_settings` and `validators` will always be present.

### `html_settings` ###

This will always contain the type to the class of the `FormBuilder` that did the rendering. The type will be used by the JavaScript to determine how to `add` and `remove` the error messages. If you create a new `FormBuilder`, you will need to write your own handlers for adding and removing.

### `validators` ###

This object contains the validators for each of the inputs rendered on the `FormBuilder`. Each input is keyed to the `name` attribute and each containing validator could simply contain the error message itself or also specific options on how that validator should be run.

### Adding validators that aren't inputs ###

If you need to add more validators but don't want them rendered on the form immediately you can inject those validators with `FormBuilder#validate`:

```erb
<%= form_for @user, validate: true do |f| %>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :name %>
    <%= f.text_field :name %>
  </p>
  <%= f.validate :age, :bio %>
...
```

In the above example `age` and `bio` will not render as inputs on the form but their validators will be properly added to the `validators` object for use later. If you do intend to dynamically render these inputs later the `name` attributes on the inputs will have to match with the keys on the `validators` object, and the inputs will have to be enabled for client side validation.

You can add all attributes with validators for the given object by
passing nothing:

```erb
<%= f.validate %>
```

You can also force validators similarly to the input syntax:

```erb
<%= f.validate :email, presence: false %>
```

Take care when using this method. The embedded validators are
overwritten based upon the order they are rendered. So if you do
something like:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :email, validate: { presence: false } %>
<%= f.validate %>
```

The `presence` validator will not be turned off because the options
were overwritten by the call to `FormBuilder#validate`


## Customize Error Rendering ##

`ClientSideValidations` will use `ActiveRecord::Base.field_error_proc` to render the error messages. Other `FormBuilders` will use their own settings.

If you need to change the markup of how the errors are rendered you can modify that in `config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`

*Please Note* if you modify the markup, you will also need to modify `ClientSideValidations.formBuilders['ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder']`'s `add` and `remove` functions. You can override the behavior by creating a new javascript file called `rails.validations.actionView.js` that contains the following:

```js
window.ClientSideValidations.formBuilders['ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder'] = {
  add: function(element, settings, message) {
    // custom add code here
  },

  remove: function(element, settings) {
    // custom remove code here
  }
}
```

Please view the code in `rails.validations.js` to see how the existing `add` and `remove` functions work and how best to override for your specific use-case.

## Custom Validators ##

### Local Validators ###
Client Side Validations supports the use of custom validators. The following is an example for creating a custom validator that validates the format of email addresses.

Let's say you have several models that all have email fields and you are validating the format of that email address on each one. This is a common validation and could probably benefit from a custom validator. We're going to put the validator into `app/validators/email_validator.rb`

```ruby
class EmailValidator < ActiveModel::EachValidator
  def validate_each(record, attr_name, value)
    unless value =~ /^([^@\s]+)@((?:[-a-z0-9]+\.)+[a-z]{2,})$/i
      record.errors.add(attr_name, :email, options.merge(value: value))
    end
  end
end

# This allows us to assign the validator in the model
module ActiveModel::Validations::HelperMethods
  def validates_email(*attr_names)
    validates_with EmailValidator, _merge_attributes(attr_names)
  end
end
```

Next we need to add the error message to the Rails i18n file `config/locales/en.yml`

```yaml
# config/locales/en.yml
en:
  errors:
    messages:
      email: "Not an email address"
```

Finally we need to add a client side validator. This can be done by hooking into the `ClientSideValidations.validator` object. Create a new file `app/assets/javascripts/rails.validations.customValidators.js`

```js
// The validator variable is a JSON Object
// The selector variable is a jQuery Object
window.ClientSideValidations.validators.local['email'] = function(element, options) {
  // Your validator code goes in here
  if (!/^([^@\s]+)@((?:[-a-z0-9]+\.)+[a-z]{2,})$/i.test(element.val())) {
    // When the value fails to pass validation you need to return the error message.
    // It can be derived from validator.message
    return options.message;
  }
}
```

That's it! Now you can use the custom validator as you would any other validator in your model

```ruby
# app/models/person.rb
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates_email :email
end
```

Client Side Validations will apply the new validator and validate your forms as needed.

## Enabling, Disabling, and Resetting on the client ##

There are many reasons why you might want to enable, disable, or even completely reset the bound validation events on the client. `ClientSideValidations` offers a simple API for this.

### Enabling ###

If you have rendered a new form via AJAX into your page you will need to enable that form for validation:

```js
$(new_form).enableClientSideValidations();
```

You should attach this to an event that is fired when the new HTML renders.

You can use the same function if you introduce new inputs to an existing form:

```js
$(new_input).enableClientSideValidations();
```

### Disabling ###

If you wish to turn off validations entirely on a form:

```js
$(form).disableClientSideValidations();
```

### Resetting ###

You can reset the current state of the validations, clear all error messages, and reattach clean event handlers:

```js
$(form).resetClientSideValidations();
```

## Callbacks ##

`ClientSideValidations` will run callbacks based upon the state of the element or form. The following callbacks are supported:

* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.after(element, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.before(element, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.fail(element, message, callback, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.pass(element, callback, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.after(form, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.before(form, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.fail(form, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.pass(form, eventData)`

The names of the callbacks should be pretty straight forward. For example, `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.fail` will be called if a form failed to validate. And `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.before` will be called before that particular element's validations are run.

All element callbacks will receive the element in a jQuery object as the first parameter and the eventData object as the second parameter. `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.fail()` will receive the message of the failed validation as the second parameter, the callback for adding the error fields as the third and the eventData object as the third. `ClientSideValidations.elementValidatePass()` will receive the callback for removing the error fields. The error field callbacks must be run in your custom callback in some fashion. (either after a blocking event or as a callback for another event, such as an animation)

All form callbacks will receive the form in a jQuery object as the first parameter and the eventData object as the second parameter.

Here is an example callback for sliding out the error message when the validation fails then sliding it back in when the validation passes:

``` javascript
// You will need to require 'jquery-ui' for this to work
window.ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.fail = function(element, message, callback) {
  callback();
  if (element.data('valid') !== false) {
    element.parent().find('.message').hide().show('slide', {direction: "left", easing: "easeOutBounce"}, 500);
  }
}

window.ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.pass = function(element, callback) {
  // Take note how we're passing the callback to the hide()
  // method so it is run after the animation is complete.
  element.parent().find('.message').hide('slide', {direction: "left"}, 500, callback);
}
```

``` css
.message {
  background-color: red;
  border-bottom-right-radius: 5px 5px;
  border-top-right-radius: 5px 5px;
  padding: 2px 5px;
}

div.field_with_errors div.ui-effects-wrapper {
  display: inline-block !important;
}
```

Finally uncomment the `ActionView::Base.field_error_proc` override in `config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`

## Disable validators ##

If you want to disable some validators, set the `disabled_validators` config variable in `config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`:

```ruby
# Example: disable the presence validator
ClientSideValidations::Config.disabled_validators = [:presence]
```

Note that the `FormBuilder` will automatically skip building validators that are disabled.

## Manual validation ##

By default, ClientSideValidations will automatically validate the form.

If for some reason you would like to manually validate the form (for example you're working with a multi-step form), you can use the following approach:

```js
$input     = $('#myInputField');
$form      = $input.closest('form');
validators = $form[0].ClientSideValidations.settings.validators;

// Validate a single field
// It might not work for multiple inputs selected at once by `$input`
$input.isValid(validators);

// Validate the whole form
$form.isValid(validators);
```

To manually validate a single field, you may also trigger a focusout event:

```js
$('#myInputField').trigger('focusout');
```

## Authors ##

[Brian Cardarella](https://twitter.com/bcardarella)

[Geremia Taglialatela](https://twitter.com/gtagliala)

[We are very thankful for the many contributors](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/graphs/contributors)

## Versioning ##

This gem follows [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org)

## Want to help? ##

Please do! We are always looking to improve this gem. Please see our
[Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
on how to properly submit issues and pull requests.

## Legal ##

[DockYard](https://dockyard.com/), LLC &copy; 2012-2018

[@dockyard](https://twitter.com/dockyard)

[Licensed under the MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)

Commit message:

Add a note about pass callbacks
`pass` callbacks will be performed also on fields
with disabled validations

Close: #752

[ci skip]

README.md, after:

# ClientSideValidations #

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/client_side_validations.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/client_side_validations)
[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/9f9e8bb6edc92615f34e/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/maintainability)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations?branch=master)

`ClientSideValidations` made easy for your Rails 5 applications!

## Project Goals ##

1. Follow the best practices for client side validations developed by [Luke Wroblewski](http://alistapart.com/article/inline-validation-in-web-forms)
2. Automatically extract and apply validation rules defined on the
   server to the client.
3. In the cases where a server-side validation rule would not work on
   the client (i.e. conditional callbacks like :if, :unless) then do not
   attempt client side validations. Fall back to the server side
   validation.
4. The client side validation error rendering should be
   indistinguishable from the server side validation error rendering.
5. Wide browser compliancy.
6. Work with any ActiveModel::Validations based model
7. Validate nested fields
8. Support custom validations
9. Client side validation callbacks
10. Plugin system to support additional FormBuilders, ORMs, etc...

## Install ##

Include `ClientSideValidations` in your Gemfile

```ruby
gem 'client_side_validations'
```

Then run the install generator

```
rails g client_side_validations:install
```

This will install the initializer:

```
config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb
```

If you need to copy the asset files from the gem into your project:

```
rails g client_side_validations:copy_assets
```
Note: If you run `copy_assets`, you will need to run it again each time you update this project.

## Initializer ##

The initializer includes a commented out `ActionView::Base.field_error_proc`.
Uncomment this to render your error messages inline with the input fields.

I recommend you not use a solution similar to `error_messages_for`. Client
Side Validations is never going to support rendering this type of error
rendering. If you want to maintain consistency between the client side
rendered validation error messages and the server side rendered
validation error messages please use what is in
`config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`

## Plugins ##

There is additional support for other `ActiveModel` based ORMs and other
Rails `FormBuilders`. Please see the [Plugin wiki page](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/wiki/Plugins)
(feel free to add your own)

* [SimpleForm](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations-simple_form)
* [Mongoid](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations-mongoid)

## Usage ##

The javascript file is served up in the asset pipeline. Add the
following to your `app/assets/javascripts/application.js` file.

```js
//= require rails.validations
```

Note: If you are using [Turbolinks](https://github.com/turbolinks/turbolinks),
make sure that `rails.validations` is required **after** `turbolinks`, so
ClientSideValidations can properly attach its event handler.

In your `FormBuilder` you only need to enable validations:

```erb
<%= form_for @user, validate: true do |f| %>
  ...
```

That should be enough to get you going.


## Conditional Validators ##

By default conditional validators are not evaluated and passed to the client.
We do this because the state model when the form is rendered is not necessarily the state
of the model when the validations fire server-side. However, if you wish to override this behavior you can do so
in the form. Given the following model:

```ruby
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates :name, :email, presence: true, length: { maximum: 10 }, if: :can_validate?

  def can_validate
    true
  end
end
```

You can force in the form:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: true %>
```

Passing `validate: true` will force all the validators for that attribute. If there are conditionals
they are evaluated with the state of the model when rendering the form. You can also force
individual validators:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: { presence: true } %>
```

In the above case only the `presence` validator will be passed to the client.

This is also the case with [other supported conditional validations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/v4.2.0/active_record_validations.html#conditional-validation) (such as Procs, Arrays or Strings).

**NOTE:** when `:if` conditional includes a symbol or a string with
`changed?` in it or start with `will_save_change_to`, validator will forced automatically.

```ruby
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates :name, presence: true, if: :name_changed?
end
```

The presence of name in the example above will be validated
without explicit forcing.

This is done because it is always assumed the value will change on the
form.

Conditionals defined with `:unless` key do not have this optimization.

### Turning off validators ###

If you wish to skip validations on a given attribute force it to `false`:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: false %>
```

If you want to be more selective about the validation that is turned off you can simply do:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :name, validate: { presence: false } %>
```

You can even turn them off per fieldset:

```erb
<%= f.fields_for :profile, validate: false do |p| %>
  ...
```

Please note that `pass` callback will also be performed on fields that skip validations.

## Understanding the client side validations data attribute ##

A rendered form with validations will always have a `data-client-side-validations` attribute.

The objects it contains will have different keys depending upon the `FormBuilder` being used. However, `html_settings` and `validators` will always be present.

### `html_settings` ###

This will always contain the type to the class of the `FormBuilder` that did the rendering. The type will be used by the JavaScript to determine how to `add` and `remove` the error messages. If you create a new `FormBuilder`, you will need to write your own handlers for adding and removing.

### `validators` ###

This object contains the validators for each of the inputs rendered on the `FormBuilder`. Each input is keyed to the `name` attribute and each containing validator could simply contain the error message itself or also specific options on how that validator should be run.

### Adding validators that aren't inputs ###

If you need to add more validators but don't want them rendered on the form immediately you can inject those validators with `FormBuilder#validate`:

```erb
<%= form_for @user, validate: true do |f| %>
  <p>
    <%= f.label :name %>
    <%= f.text_field :name %>
  </p>
  <%= f.validate :age, :bio %>
...
```

In the above example `age` and `bio` will not render as inputs on the form but their validators will be properly added to the `validators` object for use later. If you do intend to dynamically render these inputs later the `name` attributes on the inputs will have to match with the keys on the `validators` object, and the inputs will have to be enabled for client side validation.

You can add all attributes with validators for the given object by
passing nothing:

```erb
<%= f.validate %>
```

You can also force validators similarly to the input syntax:

```erb
<%= f.validate :email, presence: false %>
```

Take care when using this method. The embedded validators are
overwritten based upon the order they are rendered. So if you do
something like:

```erb
<%= f.text_field :email, validate: { presence: false } %>
<%= f.validate %>
```

The `presence` validator will not be turned off because the options
were overwritten by the call to `FormBuilder#validate`


## Customize Error Rendering ##

`ClientSideValidations` will use `ActiveRecord::Base.field_error_proc` to render the error messages. Other `FormBuilders` will use their own settings.

If you need to change the markup of how the errors are rendered you can modify that in `config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`

*Please Note* if you modify the markup, you will also need to modify `ClientSideValidations.formBuilders['ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder']`'s `add` and `remove` functions. You can override the behavior by creating a new javascript file called `rails.validations.actionView.js` that contains the following:

```js
window.ClientSideValidations.formBuilders['ActionView::Helpers::FormBuilder'] = {
  add: function(element, settings, message) {
    // custom add code here
  },

  remove: function(element, settings) {
    // custom remove code here
  }
}
```

Please view the code in `rails.validations.js` to see how the existing `add` and `remove` functions work and how best to override for your specific use-case.

## Custom Validators ##

### Local Validators ###
Client Side Validations supports the use of custom validators. The following is an example for creating a custom validator that validates the format of email addresses.

Let's say you have several models that all have email fields and you are validating the format of that email address on each one. This is a common validation and could probably benefit from a custom validator. We're going to put the validator into `app/validators/email_validator.rb`

```ruby
class EmailValidator < ActiveModel::EachValidator
  def validate_each(record, attr_name, value)
    unless value =~ /^([^@\s]+)@((?:[-a-z0-9]+\.)+[a-z]{2,})$/i
      record.errors.add(attr_name, :email, options.merge(value: value))
    end
  end
end

# This allows us to assign the validator in the model
module ActiveModel::Validations::HelperMethods
  def validates_email(*attr_names)
    validates_with EmailValidator, _merge_attributes(attr_names)
  end
end
```

Next we need to add the error message to the Rails i18n file `config/locales/en.yml`

```yaml
# config/locales/en.yml
en:
  errors:
    messages:
      email: "Not an email address"
```

Finally we need to add a client side validator. This can be done by hooking into the `ClientSideValidations.validator` object. Create a new file `app/assets/javascripts/rails.validations.customValidators.js`

```js
// The validator variable is a JSON Object
// The selector variable is a jQuery Object
window.ClientSideValidations.validators.local['email'] = function(element, options) {
  // Your validator code goes in here
  if (!/^([^@\s]+)@((?:[-a-z0-9]+\.)+[a-z]{2,})$/i.test(element.val())) {
    // When the value fails to pass validation you need to return the error message.
    // It can be derived from validator.message
    return options.message;
  }
}
```

That's it! Now you can use the custom validator as you would any other validator in your model

```ruby
# app/models/person.rb
class Person < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates_email :email
end
```

Client Side Validations will apply the new validator and validate your forms as needed.

## Enabling, Disabling, and Resetting on the client ##

There are many reasons why you might want to enable, disable, or even completely reset the bound validation events on the client. `ClientSideValidations` offers a simple API for this.

### Enabling ###

If you have rendered a new form via AJAX into your page you will need to enable that form for validation:

```js
$(new_form).enableClientSideValidations();
```

You should attach this to an event that is fired when the new HTML renders.

You can use the same function if you introduce new inputs to an existing form:

```js
$(new_input).enableClientSideValidations();
```

### Disabling ###

If you wish to turn off validations entirely on a form:

```js
$(form).disableClientSideValidations();
```

### Resetting ###

You can reset the current state of the validations, clear all error messages, and reattach clean event handlers:

```js
$(form).resetClientSideValidations();
```

## Callbacks ##

`ClientSideValidations` will run callbacks based upon the state of the element or form. The following callbacks are supported:

* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.after(element, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.before(element, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.fail(element, message, callback, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.pass(element, callback, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.after(form, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.before(form, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.fail(form, eventData)`
* `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.pass(form, eventData)`

The names of the callbacks should be pretty straight forward. For example, `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.form.fail` will be called if a form failed to validate. And `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.before` will be called before that particular element's validations are run.

All element callbacks will receive the element in a jQuery object as the first parameter and the eventData object as the second parameter. `ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.fail()` will receive the message of the failed validation as the second parameter, the callback for adding the error fields as the third and the eventData object as the third. `ClientSideValidations.elementValidatePass()` will receive the callback for removing the error fields. The error field callbacks must be run in your custom callback in some fashion. (either after a blocking event or as a callback for another event, such as an animation)

All form callbacks will receive the form in a jQuery object as the first parameter and the eventData object as the second parameter.

Here is an example callback for sliding out the error message when the validation fails then sliding it back in when the validation passes:

``` javascript
// You will need to require 'jquery-ui' for this to work
window.ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.fail = function(element, message, callback) {
  callback();
  if (element.data('valid') !== false) {
    element.parent().find('.message').hide().show('slide', {direction: "left", easing: "easeOutBounce"}, 500);
  }
}

window.ClientSideValidations.callbacks.element.pass = function(element, callback) {
  // Take note how we're passing the callback to the hide()
  // method so it is run after the animation is complete.
  element.parent().find('.message').hide('slide', {direction: "left"}, 500, callback);
}
```

``` css
.message {
  background-color: red;
  border-bottom-right-radius: 5px 5px;
  border-top-right-radius: 5px 5px;
  padding: 2px 5px;
}

div.field_with_errors div.ui-effects-wrapper {
  display: inline-block !important;
}
```

Finally uncomment the `ActionView::Base.field_error_proc` override in `config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`

## Disable validators ##

If you want to disable some validators, set the `disabled_validators` config variable in `config/initializers/client_side_validations.rb`:

```ruby
# Example: disable the presence validator
ClientSideValidations::Config.disabled_validators = [:presence]
```

Note that the `FormBuilder` will automatically skip building validators that are disabled.

## Manual validation ##

By default, ClientSideValidations will automatically validate the form.

If for some reason you would like to manually validate the form (for example you're working with a multi-step form), you can use the following approach:

```js
$input     = $('#myInputField');
$form      = $input.closest('form');
validators = $form[0].ClientSideValidations.settings.validators;

// Validate a single field
// It might not work for multiple inputs selected at once by `$input`
$input.isValid(validators);

// Validate the whole form
$form.isValid(validators);
```

To manually validate a single field, you may also trigger a focusout event:

```js
$('#myInputField').trigger('focusout');
```

## Authors ##

[Brian Cardarella](https://twitter.com/bcardarella)

[Geremia Taglialatela](https://twitter.com/gtagliala)

[We are very thankful for the many contributors](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/graphs/contributors)

## Versioning ##

This gem follows [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org)

## Want to help? ##

Please do! We are always looking to improve this gem. Please see our
[Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/DavyJonesLocker/client_side_validations/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
on how to properly submit issues and pull requests.

## Legal ##

[DockYard](https://dockyard.com/), LLC &copy; 2012-2018

[@dockyard](https://twitter.com/dockyard)

[Licensed under the MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
